INSPIRED BY THE NOVEL
HO OAN HAN BY HONG THAI
I was born in Stifled Crab Village.
Why this most peculiar name?
The village kids used to sing out loud:
Green earth blue sky, unseen
Stifled are crabs, and humans too!
As it turns out…
When the dry season comes,
the lake is gone.
Both crabs and humans
must then gasp for life.
Our village is rife with strife.
On top of that,
it's also rich in surprises.
The biggest surprise has to be my wedding.
No one could imagine
how a poor girl like me
ended up with such a grand occasion.
And this gentleman…
is definitely not the groom.
The groom wouldn't dare come here.
It's understandable.
He's the revered Governor.
If he stepped foot in this poor village,
the worst of fortunes might infect him.
She leaves
With lush silk on
To her home, she goes
In a gold palanquin
And sneeze!
Apparently,
the Governor's house employed a shaman
to forever cure me of this poverty.
And sneeze!
Depart, moldy place!
And sneeze! And sneeze!
Away with--
How fun.
A shaman at a wedding?
Never seen this before!
The things the wealthy do!
She was paid two chickens
and a basket of yams…
to alter a person's destiny!
What a deal!
DOUBLE HAPPINESS
The shaman must ensure my body
is free of toxins
that could pollute the Governor's house.
But has she really changed my fate?
So that in time, the Governor and I
can be really fulfilled?
Now! Try a bit harder! Push again!
Harder, now! Now!
My son has arrived! Let me carry him.
A girl?
Third Madam?
SEVEN YEARS LATER
Little brat!
Get over here.
Who let you point your rear at the altar,
insulting our ancestors
and forebears, huh?
Eldest Sister, I apologize. It's my fault.
Bookkeeper?
Why was the bribe for Village Chief
Vu Quan not noted--
Yes, dear wife?
This is new medicine.
Higher potency.
Virility booster my father brought
all the way from Imperial city.
Drink up, dear.
The Education Commissioner
has so much work already.
Don't bother your father
with odds and ends!
Odds and ends?
Nothing is more important
than you having a child.
Women bear children, not men!
You should hand this to Linh.
The Bookkeeper is already
taking care of her.
I'm already strong!
There's no need for boosters.
But drink anyway, so you can be… stronger!
Please, not that face again!
It'll keep me up all night!
I want to sleep with you, Mommy.
Young miss!
Be good, dear.
Tomorrow, I'll tell you a bedtime story.
Retreat, if you please.
I have books to manage.
Go on now! Go on, get!
Get out!
Don't move about.
Stay in this pose. The longer the better!
Don't let my valuable seeds slip out.
If you don't conceive this time around,
consider yourself worthless!
Third Madam? Last night,
did you receive a plentiful load?
Well…
Plentiful or not doesn't matter.
What matters is if it was…
thick or watery?
Thick or watery?
I don't know.
Don't know? You should have checked!
I need to know
if my father's medicine
is effective or not!
Or else… How much longer must
we wait for a male successor?
How are you planning to check?
Shall I spray over her belly the next time
to make it easy for you?
When a house has a son,
ranks rise constantly.
Life in provinces! Cities!
Freely gathering silver.
And you remain trapped
as Governor of this little district.
Having to stifle peasants
for pennies and dimes.
That's only because both of your gardens
aren't fertile enough!
You're saying…
we women are patchy,
while you're all perfect?
What else?
My seeds are rare commodities, yeah?
You there.
Why the stare?
The fish sauce's out. I'll get some more.
Dong Nhi? Come along, darling.
Seven years already
and still no new child.
But, hey,
the peasants have a rumor that
your seeds are actually meager goods.
Meager how?
Whoever says mine is meager,
I'll cut down their entire line!
It's all because you two
are failures at conceiving!
Mommy's fine, darling.
Special discount, just for you.
Please.
This here is my spot!
You want to sell, run off
to where your daddy is!
Must you raise your voice?
We're all just trying
to make an honest living.
Not happy? Then I'll be off.
Just scram!
Else I'll smash your face. Freak!
Nhan!
Nhan.
When did you return here?
Just half a month ago.
The last time we met…
it was so long ago.
Took me a moment
to recognize your Ladyship.
We're from the same village.
No need to be so formal.
Mommy, who is he?
Dong Nhi…
This is Uncle Nhan, a friend of mine.
Greet him, darling.
Good day, Uncle Nhan.
She's pretty.
Like her mother.
Oh?
Why aren't you home?
Rain.
Keep standing here
and ghosts will kidnap you!
Oh, come on! What are the tears for?
The rain, it will ruin my mung bean cubes…
All right, stop crying.
Let me shelter you.
What if you get wet?
Too many questions.
Want to go home or not?
-Going to catch myself a giant fish.
-That so?
We've had no luck all morning.
Maybe we should head home and net crabs.
No… your father loves braised fish.
Oh? Why is my father
a concern all of a sudden?
When he's happy,
your hand in marriage
will be easier to ask for.
What?
We've only held hands,
have not yet kissed,
but you already talk of marriage?
There, our lips have touched!
What nerve! A wild kiss
to go with wild thoughts!
For you, nothing is too wild.
Then jump down
and catch a fish for my father.
Here are some eggs to feed your mother.
Where did you get these?
I traded a basket of fresh yams.
You giving away food like that…
will your family have anything left?
It's okay. No one in my family is dying.
Who's dying?
My mom's just ill, that's all!
My mistake. But, you get my meaning…
Whatever you need, just let me know.
We're going to be a family soon.
Your mother will also be mine.
Mom! Mommy!
Let's go, darling.
Eight legs crawl around the lake
Sideways within a bone-dry pit
Green earth blue sky, unseen
Stifled are crabs, and humans too!
Come on.
Dad, please have your meal.
Mom, please have your meal.
How can you eat while playing, child?
Put the doll aside
so you can dine properly.
Yes, Grandma!
Eat up, child.
The other day I met Nhan in the market.
He still lives down by the mountain.
I see him by the lake sometimes.
He's been gone for seven years.
I wonder why he came back.
Maybe to care for his family's gravesite.
But that boy…
Gone for so long, yet still the same.
His wealth is grim, as is his luck.
Already of age,
yet still unmarried and childless.
Nhan isn't blessed…
It's a good thing you didn't wed him.
You'd have been miserable too.
What brings you here?
Come in.
Thank you.
I brought you some dried foods.
You can store and eat them anytime.
Thanks.
How have you been?
Just wandering the world.
After many years, I saved some money.
But I made the wrong plans,
met the wrong people.
Once again, I'm empty handed.
Why haven't you…
settled down?
Who would marry me?
The person worth marrying…
she's out of reach.
You still resent me.
Alright. I'll leave now.
Sure.
Just come and go as you please.
It's your nature.
Am I wrong?
For years we loved each other,
but then you end it, just like that.
I had no other choice.
You chose well.
Nobody's to blame.
I didn't leave you for the high life.
So you truly love the Governor?
I have never…
wanted to be a governor's wife.
-You there! Do you plead guilty?
-Oh, Governor…
I am guilty.
But only because my wife is gravely ill.
We have no food to keep her health.
My wife could die, Governor.
So whoever has hardship
should be allowed to steal?
Lawlessness!
Father…
"Mr. Nguyen Van Thanh.
Of Stifled Crab Village, aged 50.
Crime: poultry theft, first offense.
Punishment: 50 strikes.
Prison: One month."
Bookkeeper, pass me the charges.
Good heavens! How careless of you!
You wrote but didn't read:
"Upon being spotted and chased,
the suspect shoved people
to avoid being captured."
Right here.
Your shoving caused bodily harm.
How sharp, my Governor!
Based on Imperial law…
-Five years hard labor!
-Goodness.
Five years? My father won't survive.
It's too harsh, Governor!
Dear Governor…
If the criminal's kin has any dispute,
please enter here… to discuss.
My Lord…
About the crime…
All my father did was run away.
He didn't shove or harm anyone.
So you're saying I'm wrongly accusing him?
I didn't mean that! Forgive me.
But all that time in prison…
might kill my father.
Our Governor here is known to be kind.
He'll give your father an out.
-If… you choose to marry--
-Yes, sir!
I will ask Nhan to wed me soon.
But… Nhan isn't wealthy.
A marriage with no palanquin,
will it do, sir?
Nhan… Who the heck is Nhan?
Dear Governor… Nhan is my lover.
I meant if you marry the Governor here,
he'll lower your father's charges.
Marry the Governor?
Is there another way?
The day you marry me
is the day your father goes free.
About this deal…
no doubt people will talk and gossip.
Best you seal your lips shut.
One word, and your father's life
will be worse than death.
Are we clear?
I let you believe that I betrayed you,
so that in your rage you'd forget me.
Linh!
Linh…
-Stop him!
-Linh!
Linh!
Why tell me all this now?
I'm hoping you will stop hating me.
Ferns float… Clouds flow
To climes far…
But for you I wait
Floating…
Flowing…
Birds swoop…
Fish swirl…
I've waited, not once
But twice
Then three and four times
Where are you now?
The moon has hung for hours
Darling…
Moon is now my crown
To whom… I miss
Stars fall, the night comes
Moonlight fades
As the bamboos dance…
In the breeze
I'm here wondering
Where are you now?
To whom… I miss
Oh, birds, please send these few words…
Do you from afar
Think of me?
Who's been asking:
Where are you now?
Throughout the night…
Ten hours all…
But for you… I wait
Throughout…
Damn you! Stop this madness!
People are resting
and here you are singing?
What a headache!
Sorry, Eldest Sister. I'll keep quiet.
-Hey, Moon!
-Huh?
Have you noticed
something odd about Linh lately?
Odd? Like what?
Never have I seen someone laugh
after being scolded!
Oh, sis!
You scold, she argues, you're mad.
You scold, she laughs, you're still mad!
You're funny.
No wonder she laughs at you!
Ferns float… Clouds flow…
To climes far!
You all have gone mad!
I miss you. Come by tomorrow.
It'll be tough. I just got back.
It's been ten days! What do you mean just?
It's been so long, I can't stand it.
-You're so greedy.
-What if I am?
But don't get me wrong.
It's not just because I want to…
So what else do you want?
We can't keep sneaking around like this.
I love you.
I want you beside me, always.
I want us to be together.
You want the same thing, right?
Good day, sir.
Nhan.
How have you both been?
Ma'am, are you better?
Thanks for asking.
The wife and I are well.
Where has Linh been these past few weeks?
She's different now!
Has her own husband and kid to tend to!
She can't just visit as she pleases!
But… what exactly do you need?
I haven't seen her at the market either.
Well, let me tell you this, Linh is now--
Linh is very busy these days.
There'll be a feast at her place.
Many guests and officials.
She has little time.
Yes.
If you want to work in this house,
you have to give it your all!
No carelessness!
All the guests today are
bigwigs and strongmen.
Should there be any issue,
you'll be lining up for prison labor.
-Are we all clear?
-Yes, ma'am!
Only when you're done will you be paid.
If done poorly, then not a penny out!
Clear, Madam Linh?
Yes, Eldest Sister.
Pick up the damn pace!
-Enjoy.
-New dish.
Mung?
-This plate, the main table.
-Yes, ma'am!
This is tasty!
-Who's the cook, Governor?
-Yes… Um…
Dear governors…
all of today's cookery is--
Under the watch of
Third Madam Linh, who else?
Dive in, governors! Eat up!
All of them are tasty, enjoy your meal.
We're almost done. Take care of
the final touches, everyone!
Careful when opening
these crabs, sir. If not--
Nhan.
-Goodness, how could you be so bold?
-I had to see you!
You disappeared these past few weeks.
I thought they had hurt you.
I'm fine.
Then why hide from me?
I don't know.
I don't know what to do.
I need some time.
When I entered the Governor's house…
I knew then my life had ended.
I stopped believing in happiness…
until I saw you again.
Did I do something wrong?
You did not.
But I'm trapped here.
I also have to think about Dong Nhi.
Nhan…
We can't go on like this.
The closer we wish to be,
the more we will suffer.
What I fear most is watching you cry.
You've suffered enough in this house.
I only want to see your smile.
See your happiness.
I don't know what to do.
It's alright.
Whatever you can give, I accept.
I only need to see you in the market.
From afar is good enough.
If that's how it has to be.
We'll take it one step at a time.
Linh!
-Oh, Linh!
-Yes?
Are you deaf? I've been calling for you.
Get out there. The governors want to meet!
Why? Did I do something wrong?
Yes. The food you cooked tastes too good!
This room here… It smells of…
Of crabs!
Well… I went from the kitchen
and straight to my room.
I didn't get to change.
What's that?
I think a rat.
This room smells of food!
Of course rats will show up!
Let's get some fresh air in!
My clothes are smelly now. Oh!
-Let me get it!
-No need!
My God, Linh…
Yes…?
This rat is…
so big!
Why aren't you moving?
Get changed and greet people.
Yes. Let me choose something nice.
You wouldn't know how! Let me choose!
I forgot…
None of my clothes are fine.
Can I borrow yours, Second Sister?
Just this one time.
My way of thanking you for today.
Oh, the crab guy… What are you doing here?
Um… I…
I'm getting my pay.
I must leave soon.
I'm looking for Third Madam.
Payment? Then go wait in the kitchen.
It's improper to roam around
the Governor's house.
I'm sorry. My mistake.
Two gems were taken.
Is that it?
Now we must have an elaborate feast
as the Governor
has plentiful crops this time.
I got to have it out with you.
You see?
Please enjoy.
So good.
Greetings, governors.
I heard you alone
took care of the cooking.
The food today, every dish is heavenly!
Beautiful and skillful!
Wouldn't you agree, gentlemen?
Our governor here sure is blessed.
Trays both full and high!
Not an easy feat!
My wife just eats and sleeps!
Hey, I also gave you a male successor.
Please eat, all.
Dear governors…
all I've done is
follow First Madam's orders.
Today's fulfilling feast…
was all First Madam's doing.
Third Madam is so humble!
She knows her betters!
Thank you, governors. Now, let's dive in.
Let's eat.
How much more rice
and cloth must we lose to Linh, huh?
Useless flesh!
She alone took care
of the feast. She's not useless!
I let her into this house not to cook!
I need her to give birth to a son!
What makes
her different from the ones before?
Can't bear children?
Then kick her the hell out!
Oh, heavens!
At least she made one child!
You're taking her side?
Ah… I know why.
You're afraid of her.
-What are you on about?
-It's so clear.
Without Linh here,
your seeds are homeless.
Then people will say you are impotent.
Stop with your nonsense!
She knows you're afraid.
So she leads you around
like cows and bulls.
This wench may be all, yes sir, yes ma'am…
but in truth she has bite!
If a third wife can rattle you,
how can you govern people?
Who could ever raise your rank?
Shut your mouth!
I'm not afraid of anyone!
Afraid? Of you?
Afraid, huh?
Scared, huh?
You satisfied?
A whip for you!
-And another!
-Alright, we get it!
So you're not afraid of anyone. Now, stop!
Keep whipping her
and she'll stop having kids!
Has she had any these past seven years?
How much longer must this house wait?
So give her one last chance!
If she fails again, get rid of her!
Wait!
Get rid of her?
Who's going to make babies?
I will find you a different girl!
Then go find one! But until then,
nobody lays a hand on Linh!
The only one laying a hand on her is you!
Well…
The point is … Nobody touches her!
-Get out here!
-Let me go!
Stand still! Brat!
-Brat!
-Dong Nhi! Oh, my child…
Spare her, Eldest Sister.
She didn't do anything.
Kneel down!
If the rooster hasn't crowed,
you don't return to your quarters!
Am I clear?
Sister…
She's just a child…
The night is cold, how can she bear it?
If you're going to
punish someone, punish me!
I wouldn't dare to!
You must be healthy to deliver babies.
Come on, sis. At least give her a coat--
Shut up!
Your daddy is a tycoon?
Think you're special?
I fucking fear no one.
Interrupt me one more time
and I'll smash you to bits!
And this runt… Anyone tries to help her
and I'll break her legs!
You two there, let her go.
Let's see what she'll do.
I beg you, Eldest Sister.
My child could die.
Whatever you want, I'll do it.
Please spare her.
Just try and reach her…
And we'll see what's harder:
The stick in my hand,
or the bones in her body?
Stay right there!
Dong Nhi.
Damn them!
Nhan!
-What are you doing?
-I'll hack them to pieces!
-No, please, that's not right!
-If this keeps up… how will you survive?
Just calm down… and hear me out.
I will leave the Governor's house.
What?
And I'll leave without a word.
You're…
planning to escape?
I'm out of ways to protect
my child in that house.
Whatever hardship, I can endure.
But now they'll abuse
Dong Nhi to punish me…
I will come with you.
Are you certain?
We will be hunted.
-Living in the shadows.
-So what?
For you…
For both of us…
I've nothing to be afraid of.
I know of a wonderful forest
to build a home.
There… people won't be able to find us.
The land is good. We'll grow everything.
Close by is a waterfall.
Drought won't be an issue.
-Really, dear?
-Yes.
Then I've nothing to worry about.
If we want to evade the guards,
there's only one way.
I know people who can protect us.
It'll cost us… at the least five quan.
Five quan?
Meaning 50 tien, right?
My own savings… That just won't do.
I've also sold all my dowry.
It was only enough to buy
my mother's medicine.
Where did you get all this money?
I noticed the Governor
hiding a portion of his money
that he received from bribes
and exploiting the poor.
How bold of you!
You should've planned with me.
But we have planned. There's no other way.
Also… if I only take
a little each time, they won't notice.
Here are my savings.
-We're still a ways away.
-I don't mind that.
As long as we're together.
-Third Madam!
-Yes?
Going back to your village again?
Eldest Sister, I'm taking Dong Nhi
to visit her grandparents.
Wait… What's in your bag?
Ah… Just personal items.
Hey, Moon! Search her bag for me.
Why me? Do it yourself?
Good heavens!
No wonder our food supply is always short.
What else has gone missing in this house?
Ma'am…
The fish head was thrown away.
It felt like a waste…
So I'm taking it home for my parents.
Governors leave fish heads for their dogs.
Is your family competing
with mutts for meals?
Stop it, sis.
Did you eat shrimp paste
for breakfast? Why so harsh?
Bunch of paupers sure flock together!
When do we meet the traders?
Hey?
Did you hear my question?
When do we meet the traders?
I think… we lost some money.
How can that be?
I've only checked this month…
but I noticed multiple shortages.
How does money just run off like that?
Horseshit! Only thieves can run.
Who then? Who has the gall to steal?
I'll bury them all, alive!
Dong Nhi! Once you're done,
return crabby to the kitchen.
Why must crabby be in the kitchen?
I don't want that.
Eldest mother will scold you
if you play around with food.
Why must crabby become food?
Everything has its destiny, darling.
For a shrimp, it's to be eaten by crabs.
And for a crab, it's to be eaten by us.
It's not destiny.
It because crabby was
caught by the crab seller!
Thien Luong!
Where are you? Bookkeeper Thien Luong!
Come here and talk to me! You coward!
Mister Dung, palanquin bearer!
Drunk already?
All the lost money…
Why must you go
and tell the whole village,
and have people see me
like a goddamn thief?
Mister Dung. Stay calm,
you're too drunk. Leave!
I'd like to know…
how you paid off your gambling debts.
Scoundrel!
-Best lower your voice.
-I've told you…
My mother died… and left me just a little.
All my life… I've never had
to swipe a dime.
While all of you are a bunch of thieves!
Ah, no… Not you, Third Madam.
I'm talking about
this bitch and his master!
Mister Dung! Calm yourself!
You officials leech off the people!
Such ruckus!
How noisy and clumsy you are!
This is what drinking gets you.
Stumbling around
and head first into a vase.
Head all cracked open now!
-Hey.
-Yes?
You saw him fall, right?
Yes…
Drunk… then fell…
Head first into vase… Then dead.
You, Mung. How did he die?
Dear Governor…
He… he fell, sir.
And you, Third Madam?
If I hadn't stolen anything,
the bookkeeper
wouldn't have gone after Mister Dung.
He was drunk,
and ran into some ruthless folks.
You tried to stop him.
I must return all the money.
Don't. It's too dangerous.
And it won't resolve anything.
We won't take anymore.
Stay quiet for a bit, then disappear.
I want to cover Mister Dung's funeral.
He has only himself in life.
It's so sad.
Alright, I'll set aside some money.
Let me see.
But for now… don't do anything.
Or we'll raise suspicion.
-Wait… I saw nothing, heard nothing!
-So you saw everything!
You…
I'm from the Governor's house.
If you hit me,
you'll be off to prison!
Prison, huh?
Governor's house? This isn't your turf!
It's nowhere near your house!
Nhan! Stop!
You're going to kill him!
Why are you here?
Nhan! Stop hitting!
He keeps clamming up! He won't speak!
Calm down!
Want me to speak?
You have to let me think.
Be smart and speak truthfully.
Or the hits keep coming!
Stop! No more hitting please!
If I die, how will I talk?
He knows everything.
Know everything how?
I didn't know you two were lovers!
Lovers how?
Alright, not lovers.
Just friends then. Hm?
Now, why are you here?
The Governor has lost some money.
-So he--
-You see?
They know that you stole!
Wait… we were just suspicious!
We have no evidence!
Otherwise, I'd have told the guards
to snatch you both already.
For now, the Governor has no idea
I've followed Third Madam here.
Hey! Rest assured.
If the Governor asks, I will say…
that Third Madam is not a worry.
As for the money…
I miscounted. Sound good?
You think he'd believe you for a second?
The entire District knows
how the Governor listens only to me!
Right, Third Madam?
Nhan!
Don't trust his words!
Alright, then.
In the Governor's study, there is a book.
-If you grab--
-I'm sure there'll be guards there!
Trying to ambush us?
-Is that it?
-Go! Come with me!
He'll say what he wants to say now.
We let him go, he'll turn on us!
There must be another way.
If we want all to stay hidden…
there's only one solution.
Good heavens, Nhan…
That's a human life.
His or ours? You choose.
The bookkeeper is a human being too.
What he does is just for survival.
You look out for him, but who will for us?
Nobody!
The drought that year,
folks died all over!
And they still collected taxes!
-Why show mercy to these fucks?
-Enough.
You go over there and sit.
Just sit and relax for a bit.
Want to find a solution?
First you have to calm down.
How can I possibly calm down?
Try counting to 100.
But…
What if I'm still not calm by then?
Then try 200!
Such a silly question.
Bookkeeper?
Nhan is right.
I can't let you go, sir.
Unless you give me a solid reason.
Nhan is on fire now,
I'm afraid he'll do something rash.
But I've given you the upper hand!
What do you mean?
That book I mentioned. It has a red cover.
It's under the desk.
In the Governor's study.
Detailed writings
about dirty transactions.
-What does it have to do with me?
-Good heavens!
If it's in your hands…
then the Governor
will never touch any of you!
Trust me, Third Madam.
From the beginning…
have I ever lied to you, dear madam?
In all honesty… I know that
you are a woman both kind and honest.
I'm just like you.
Someone for Governor Duc Trong
to push and pressure.
Oh, Third Madam! Please help me out.
The blood on my nose
is killing me! Please help.
Come on, help me!
Over here, right under.
So hard to breathe.
Let go of me!
Nhan! Help me!
56… 57… 58…
59… 60… 61…
Beg for your life. Beg for it, you bitch!
97… 98…
99… 100.
Doesn't deserve death… Deserves death…
Doesn't deserve death.
-Nhan, save me!
-Save this!
Oh my God…
He was trying to…
He was trying to kill you.
Eat up, Linh.
Yes.
Third Madam?
Are you okay?
No, I'm fine. Just a bit tired.
Ma'am, you need rest.
I'll prepare the chicken.
You there!
We're looking
for the Governor's bookkeeper. Seen him?
Sir… For the past two weeks,
I haven't seen him.
-Ma'am, how about you?
-Sir, I also haven't seen him.
You summoned me?
Mister Kien? This is my third wife.
Good day, Third Madam.
My name's Kien.
Mediator assigned by the Judge to look
into bookkeeper Luong's disappearance.
We contacted the Judge just the other day
and the next day a mediator is here!
Such an honor.
It's nothing. Just doing my job.
I wonder… when was the last time
you saw the bookkeeper?
Perhaps… about half a month ago.
I stay in the back,
and so we rarely get to meet.
Did Third Madam notice
anything unusual about him?
No, sir.
But it could also be
because I didn't pay attention.
Who in our house
brewed the tea? It's so fragrant.
I brewed the tea, sir.
Third Madam is so skilled.
Every matter in the house, then,
must have been under your care?
House matters are First Madam's.
I only involve myself
in the smaller things, that's all.
What about spending matters?
I'm only given money for groceries.
I see.
Third Madam, I've found it!
Have a look, ma'am.
You sure it's the crab seller?
Yes, I'm sure.
Tasty!
The seasoning is just right.
Why, thank you--
Third Madam Linh knows all the dishes.
And all of them tastes great!
But of course,
under the direction of Eldest Sister here…
who is both sharp and wise,
and also heartfelt… and humane!
As you're the guest of honor, I've asked
to serve only local delicacies.
Huh? Linh?
Where's the crab? Why is it not served?
I'm worried that Eldest Sister
has grown sick of it.
Third Madam Linh found a new crab seller.
I must say the crabs are good!
Full of marrow and fresh!
A specialty of Stifled Crab Village!
That sounds wonderful.
I too, like to eat crabs.
Then come to our house daily!
We eat crabs every single day!
Every single day?
Sounds like an exaggeration…
but it's the truth!
Third Madam, where did you get them?
Just at the market, sir.
Get me that one.
You take it, right?
People said
your crabs are the region's finest?
-Did they?
-Heavens… People were right!
A few weeks ago…
You were working
at the Governor's house right?
Correct! I was there
to help out with the feast.
So you know the Third Madam then?
She's my customer.
The household said
they eat your crabs daily.
It seems…
Third Madam's a special customer, yes?
Good crabs, returning patrons.
Also, we're from the same village.
Supportive buys.
Is that all?
But Mung, the Governor's housemaid,
said she saw you leaving
Third Madam's private chamber?
Ah! I remember now.
It was so frustrating.
My work was done, but I wasn't paid!
I went to Third Madam to settle things.
I'm a farm guy.
What do I know about formalities?
They employed you just for the day…
but you knew where
Third Madam's chamber was?
That's quite odd.
It's quite easy!
Talkative helpers.
Just ask and they'll show you!
That's right!
Want to know the master?
Go ask the helper.
You're here to buy crabs?
Yes, of course. I'll take these.
My name's Kien.
Mediator of the Judge.
I'm here to investigate
the disappearance of
Bookkeeper Thien Luong.
But you'd know that already.
What do you mean?
Governor's house's happenings.
I have no clue.
Here are your crabs.
By sight alone, they're delicious.
Keep the change.
I'm sure that…
I'll come back to find you.
Surely…
Surely he knows something.
He's a man of the Court. We must leave.
-Leave immediately!
-We can't.
I'm scared too. But running
would be like confessing.
We must handle the bookkeeper's body.
Handle?
What do you mean?
He's buried too close to the house.
I'm worried Kien will soon
pass by my place.
I have to move the body.
The farther the better.
I'm returning to the village today.
Let me help.
-No!
-Just leave it to me.
Right at sundown, I'll take care of it.
We just need to get through this.
The moment things
settle down, we'll leave.
We'll handle the money matters later.
Well…
After a few weeks…
Linh went to the Governor's house,
Then Nhan…
just some days later, packed up and left.
The Governor altered the charges…
Soon after…
Linh became his mistress.
Unrefined lips would say…
The Governor bent laws to tie the knot.
Have Nhan and Linh
met each other recently?
Sir… Since Linh handles all the cooking…
she has to visit the market.
So, of course… She has to meet Nhan
from time to time.
What I meant…
was not just meet.
Nhan and Linh, are they seeing each other?
Sir…
Recently…
Nhan came over to find Linh.
But…
He came over just that one time.
News for all ears!
High, low, far, near!
Junior!
You're a fast runner?
Faster than you.
You take this seal.
Run back to the Governor.
IMPERIAL DETECTIVE
Crab seller!
It's late. Where are you off to?
With a mat?
Well…
Nowhere really.
The moon's out and it's breezy.
I'm, uh…
heading to the lake for some fresh air.
Can I lay beside you?
Just kidding.
Out in the market, I told you about
bookkeeper Thien Luong.
And?
It's a tough case.
I haven't a solid witness or any proof.
My only tactic now is to
ruffle some feathers.
Maybe then the culprit will fumble
and expose evidence.
Sounds tough, indeed…
But I'm just a farmer.
How can I help you catch a killer?
Interesting…
Who said anything about killing?
I never told you
that this was a murder case.
And folks tend to use mats to either cover
or wrap up a corpse.
The thing is…
The bookkeeper's body
is still missing.
Either you show me where he is,
or you can choose…
to run.
Stop now!
Nhan!
This way!
If you want to run,
keep running.
Ultimately… Third Madam
is still in the village.
Linh isn't involved in this!
Here! Over here!
You said you were fast?
Well…
These guys were a bit sluggish.
Can we now…
go find the bookkeeper's body?
Keep hitting him like that,
what if he dies?
Then he dies!
The case still has holes in it.
Please stand down.
You didn't seem so surprised, ma'am,
when I escorted you back to
the Governor's house.
You didn't resist.
Nor did you ask why.
Nhan told me everything.
I blended into the house during the feast
I planned everything out.
I thought of stealing a little bit
each time. No one would find out.
Who knew…
the bookkeeper would track me down.
Track you?
How?
Dung, the palanquin bearer.
He was your accomplice?
We sometimes drink together.
When I was drunk,
I might have overshared something.
The bookkeeper came by
when I was hiding money.
And so I had to kill him.
And as for you leaving
Third Madam's chambers?
That day…
Third Madam was so busy with the feast.
I took the chance to enter
and snatch a few things.
Nhan's statements were
detailed and in full.
But… something's been troubling me.
What troubles you, sir?
How did Nhan know where the money was?
There were no scratches on the cabinet.
That meant the thief had a key.
I'm certain…
Nhan had help from an insider.
Why didn't he just steal
the coffers in one go?
Less risk there.
Or perhaps…
He was afraid.
Should the Governor find out
about the money
this insider…
might have been exposed.
-Why are you telling me all this?
-Whomever Nhan's accomplice is…
between them there has to be trust.
Ah, no…
Between them…
there has to be strong feelings.
That's why…
Nhan is willing to risk his life…
to protect this person.
Right Third Madam?
Based on the findings I have,
Nhan…
killed the bookkeeper.
And Third Madam Linh…
is irrelevant.
Irrelevant?
They're having an affair,
they're collaborators!
If Linh is acquitted…
there really is no justice!
The Governor and First Madam
are still in doubt.
Then…
I will dig deeper.
Say I discover another clue,
one confirming First Madam's reasoning,
then the Third Madam…
must also be punished like Nhan.
Yes!
Lustful insects like them
should be drowned in the lake!
But those near death have nothing to fear.
At that point, will Third Madam…
reveal certain matters?
-What matters?
-Matters about what?
Seven years ago,
you bent laws in your favor.
And forced Linh to marry you.
About that…
-Why does it--
-If your superiors hear of this…
If they do, your path to higher ranks
will be far from smooth.
Moreover, Third Madam's affair…
must also be reported.
And then… you will be a laughingstock.
You are most honorable,
yet easily outsmarted by the mistress.
You go…
and tell the Judge…
that the bookkeeper's case
has been resolved completely.
Only Nhan…
is the culprit.
You all may be done with Nhan,
but I'm not done with Linh!
Kien!
This is the best outcome for this case.
I trust… Nhan will agree.
You must leave now.
If they suspect anything,
it'll be the end.
You didn't intend to kill the bookkeeper…
why confess that you did?
One way or another, you'd be involved.
You're the most precious thing in my life.
If I can't protect you,
how will I live?
I can't let you die.
How can I…
let the father of my child die?
What did you say?
Before entering the Governor's house,
that night by the lake,
we were together.
The last night in December.
How could I forget?
The Governor is infertile.
The rumors are true.
Why are you telling me only now?
Your temper…
If you knew your child
was calling the Governor father…
would you have let it pass?
I wanted to wait until…
our family was safe.
Dong Nhi is my child.
She's really mine?
I have a way to save you.
No!
You will do nothing!
It's too dangerous.
And it's too late.
Just let me go.
I need you and Dong Nhi to live.
Nhan…
Listen to me.
Even if you sacrifice yourself,
they still won't leave us alone.
Our family must escape from here.
Our family must remain together.
You there!
What's all this sneaking around?
I…
I, what? Speak!
Too many things have happened.
I couldn't sleep.
I was just out getting some air.
But your name was cleared!
Should've slept much easier!
I forgot!
Your lover will soon be beheaded.
Hard to sleep with that!
Excuse me.
I knew it!
You entered the study, didn't you?
What the hell are you hiding?
Stealing again? Give that to me!
Oh, you little--
Fucking bitch!
Guards? Lock her up!
Help…
Fire! People, put it out now!
-Shut this door right now!
-Yes.
Bring water!
Oh my God.
All of you! Bring Linh back here now!
Find her in Stifled Crab Village!
Tie up her entire house!
Second Madam!
Did you see Third Madam pass by here?
Linh… she ran that way!
Go!
Have you found Third Madam yet?
You dare bring your face back here?
You shut your mouth and listen up.
The ledger that you and bookkeeper
noted down dirty money in?
It's in my possession.
I've sent it to people I trust.
If you refuse to do what I say,
it will be delivered to the Court.
I think you know… what will happen then.
-What do you want?
-Release Nhan this instant.
And from this day on…
-Leave my family be!
-Your family?
Filthy animals!
You killed First Madam.
Even if I let you off,
you still have to deal with her father,
the Education Commissioner!
Fatal accidents are
quite common in this house.
You'll find a way
to explain to her father,
won't you?
What if you betray me?
You don't have much choice…
except to trust me.
We only want to live in peace.
Darling… What happened to you?
What happened?
We have to go. We must go now.
Linh!
The knife penetrated her organs.
I'm sorry.
Doctor, I beg you.
I beg you. There must be a way!
Nhan…
This will keep us safe for now.
But the governor,
won't keep his word for long.
-You have to…
-It's alright.
I'll take care of it.
Dong Nhi.
There's something I need to tell you.
Uncle Nhan here is your father.
The crab seller… is my daddy?
Your Daddy and I…
We met when we were about your age.
We love each other so much.
But there was a time…
we couldn't be with each other.
Do you remember,
when I told you that…
everything has its destiny?
Every leaf
must fall from the branch.
These six years…
you have been with Mommy.
For your remaining life…
I won't be around.
But Daddy will be by your side.
When you're happy…
when you're sad… or worried…
or in need.
He will be next to you.
Why must you go?
Please don't leave me! I don't want that!
Mommy, don't leave me!
I'll do no such thing.
I'll always be with you.
Whenever you miss me,
place a hand on your chest.
Can you feel your heart beating?
It means that I'm listening.
Then I'm here with you too, right?
Indeed, darling.
I am Thanh Nhan.
With my betrothed, Dieu Linh,
we pray before
the Gods of Stifled Crab Village.
We ask you all
to bear witness to our love.
From today, both of us are bound for life.
We swear to stay true to each other.
For eternity, attached.
Any strife, we'll bear.
Any sweetness, we'll share.
Never shall we part.
Don't push yourself, dear.
I want to bow with you.
At last, I get to be your wife.
I've been waiting for this day.
Mommy! What's wrong, Mommy?
I'm just tired, darling.
Let Mommy rest, okay?
Linh?
WANTED FOR MURDER
Have you seen this person?
CHIEF MAGISTRATE: FIFTY GOLD BARS
DEPUTY GOVERNOR: TWO KILOGRAMS OF GOLD
PROVINCIAL GOVERNOR:
TWO THOUSAND TAELS OF SILVER
Yes.
-Want to feed them?
-Yes!
The moon has hung for ten hours
Darling, the moon is now my crown
To whom… I miss
Stars fall, night comes
Moonlight fades
Do you from afar…
Think of me?
Who's been asking
Where are you now?
INSPIRED BY THE NOVEL
HO OAN HAN BY HONG THAI